so I ended the previous video by saying
that except for the most trivial cases
most regular expressions will consist of
the literals boundary matches and
character classes strung together and
they're usually be quantifies as
well and we'll be covering those in a
minute
so one example of using the square
brackets in a regular expression would
be to find a word in a string that maybe
in upper or lowercase now we could
actually upper or lowercase the
string first then you use something like
string . index of let's just say we
wanted to find the name Harry with the
capital H or Harry with a lowercase h
without upper or lower casing the string
so we could do something like this to
solve that
so we're looking for Harry in uppercase
......
.....
....
so in the case of the string that was
searching for being harry with a
uppercase h if we run that no surprises
there we get the upper case H but if we
change that so its a lowercase H and run
that you can see the name is converted
to uppercase so whether it's uppercase
or lowercase it gets converted to
uppercase because of what we put in
the replacement string so it's obviously
saving us from actually having to
upper or lowercase the action string
first
alright so next what if we wanted to
replace every letter in the alphanumeric
string except for an e or j because the
alphanumeric strings off-screen what
I'm going to do is to take a copy of
that paste it down here so we can still see it i
will call this one the new alphanumeric
string from this point forward
so what we want to replace every
letter in that string except the E and
the J so would we have to write a long
regular expression that contains every
letter but those two
fortunately not we don't need to do
that we can actually simplify that by
the following
regular expression so we can do....
.....
....
.....so if we run that
you can see that the new alphanumeric
string has been replaced with X's other
than that the occurrence of the E or
the J now when we use the carrot
as the first character inside square
brackets it's actually a character class
not a boundary matcher so that might have
been causing a bit of confusion given
that we've use the carrot as a boundary
matcher in the previous video so in this
particular case because we're using it
inside square brackets it negates the
pattern that follows it so instead of
matching all occurrences of E&J the
regular expression left square
carrot ej right square bracket
will match all occurrences that are not
e and j and of course when we ran it you
saw that does that actually work quite
nicely every character except e and j were
replaced with the X in this case so to
reiterate here to get this behavior the
carrot has to be inside square brackets
when it's not inside square brackets the
carrot is used to denote the beginning
of a string or line
alright so let's so let's say we wanted
to replace all occurrences of a through
f & 3 through 8 inclusive so here's one
way to do it so....
.....
...
....so if we run that you see that works
.....
and we've got well at least it seems
....so if we run that you see that works
to partially work but notice the d
and we've got well at least it seems
and f weren't replaced and just this is
to partially work but notice the d
just really to confirm the fact
and f weren't replaced and just this is
that if you haven't gathered this
just really to confirm the fact
already the regular expressions are case
that if you haven't gathered this
sensitive so in this case the D and the
already the regular expressions are case
f weren't replace because they're uppercase
sensitive so in this case the D and the
letters but here is a actually shorter way to
f weren't replace because they're uppercase
solve what we're trying to achieve this
letters but here is a actually shorter way to
we can do....
solve what we're trying to achieve this
....
we can do....
.....
....
....you
.....
can see we've got exactly the same
....you
result on the screen and the
can see we've got exactly the same
dash character in this case that we used
result on the screen and the
is specifying range now when we have
dash character in this case that we used
multiple ranges as we do here there's no
is specifying range now when we have
need to separate them with a comma
multiple ranges as we do here there's no
we just actually go on to the next range
need to separate them with a comma
as you saw there without adding a space
we just actually go on to the next range
between the Ranges now since regular
as you saw there without adding a space
expressions are case sensitive if we
between the Ranges now since regular
wanted to actually match the capital a
expressions are case sensitive if we
through f as well we could write or
wanted to actually match the capital a
revise the expression slightly we
through f as well we could write or
come in here we can put.....
revise the expression slightly we
...and when we ran that
come in here we can put.....
you can see this time we've actually got
...and when we ran that
those letters replaced the d and the
you can see this time we've actually got
f are now replaced because we specified the
those letters replaced the d and the
uppercase versions as well as the
f are now replaced because we specified the
lowercase versions with that said there's
uppercase versions as well as the
still another way we can do this as well
lowercase versions with that said there's
it is actually possible to turn off the
still another way we can do this as well
case sensitivity using the following
it is actually possible to turn off the
special construct so let's actually have
case sensitivity using the following
a look at that....
special construct so let's actually have
....
a look at that....
.....
....
.....if we do that we're ignoring case
.....
now case sensitivity their is no case
.....if we do that we're ignoring case
sensitivity and you can see without
now case sensitivity their is no case
actually specify the uppercase a-f as we
sensitivity and you can see without
did on line 33 we've now got it to actually
actually specify the uppercase a-f as we
replace those letters as well
did on line 33 we've now got it to actually
and that's because we're using the
replace those letters as well
special construct the left parenthesis ?
and that's because we're using the
I the cases sensitivity now in our regular
special construct the left parenthesis ?
expressions and this works with ascii strings
I the cases sensitivity now in our regular
now if the string is unicode
expressions and this works with ascii strings
then we actually want to use something
now if the string is unicode
like the ? I u would put u on the
then we actually want to use something
end if it's actually unicode
like the ? I u would put u on the
string like so an interesting bit of
end if it's actually unicode
trivia here this actually didn't work
string like so an interesting bit of
properly in java 6 and earlier versions
trivia here this actually didn't work
the java is actually finally fixed in jdk
properly in java 6 and earlier versions
six u2 alright so let's move on
the java is actually finally fixed in jdk
let's say we wanted to replace all the
six u2 alright so let's move on
numbers in the string now one way of
let's say we wanted to replace all the
doing that you do something....
numbers in the string now one way of
....
doing that you do something....
.....
....
run that you can see all the digits have
.....
been replaced with an x but there's
run that you can see all the digits have
actually a shorthand way to do the same
been replaced with an x but there's
thing when we want to match any digit we
actually a shorthand way to do the same
can actually use the backslash d
thing when we want to match any digit we
character class i'm going to copy that
can actually use the backslash d
so we can simply make that two
character class i'm going to copy that
backslashes and a d and run that and you
so we can simply make that two
can see that we've got the same result
backslashes and a d and run that and you
and note that i had to escape the / so
can see that we've got the same result
in other words had to put a slash a
and note that i had to escape the / so
backslash and then put the /d in the
in other words had to put a slash a
the actual string to make it a
backslash and then put the /d in the
valid string if I don't put the second
the actual string to make it a
/ in there we get an error
valid string if I don't put the second
illegally escape character string literal
/ in there we get an error
so I need to put this basically need to
illegally escape character string literal
escape / for this to work and there's
so I need to put this basically need to
also a shortcut to replace all non
escape / for this to work and there's
digits so we can do.....
also a shortcut to replace all non
....
digits so we can do.....
.....
....
so you can see there that we replace
all non digits as well with X now string
has a trim method that removes white
spaces from the beginning and end of a
string but let's say that we want all
whitespace removed no matter where it
occurs in the strings so lets actually
just declare a new string....
....
so if you run that you can see how it prints
out there the tab and also a new line
and the spaces as well let's now use a
regular expression to remove all
whitespace from the string and
fortunately there's actually character
class to do that so I can do
....
.....
....so if we
....
actually run that you can see what's
....so if we
happening it's completely removed or
actually run that you can see what's
removed all spaces the tab and also the
happening it's completely removed or
new line that was added in the first
removed all spaces the tab and also the
version of the string of course if you
new line that was added in the first
really wanted to remove specific
version of the string of course if you
whitespace characters we could specify
really wanted to remove specific
those in a regular expression just as
whitespace characters we could specify
you would for any other strings so using
those in a regular expression just as
backslash t backslash n etc for
you would for any other strings so using
example I could do something like
backslash t backslash n etc for
....
example I could do something like
...you
....
can see the tab character that was
...you
originally shown there has been
can see the tab character that was
replaced with an x now if we wanted to
originally shown there has been
replace all non-white space characters
replaced with an x now if we wanted to
instead we can actually use backslash s
replace all non-white space characters
the capital S this time so we can put
instead we can actually use backslash s
....
the capital S this time so we can put
.....and it's pretty hard to see but
....
that's actually replaced all the non
.....and it's pretty hard to see but
whitespace characters instead so all we can
that's actually replaced all the non
see on the screen or we can't see it on the
whitespace characters instead so all we can
screen is the tab character and the newline
see on the screen or we can't see it on the
character but that has actually removed all
screen is the tab character and the newline
the non-white space characters instead
character but that has actually removed all
another character class is back slash
the non-white space characters instead
lowercase w that matches a to z in
another character class is back slash
lowercase a to z in uppercase 0 to 9 and
lowercase w that matches a to z in
also the underscore so lets actually
lowercase a to z in uppercase 0 to 9 and
use that in our new alphanumeric
also the underscore so lets actually
string so we can go....
use that in our new alphanumeric
....
string so we can go....
....you can see that we've got now a string of
....
x's again we can run that on our white
....you can see that we've got now a string of
space has.....
x's again we can run that on our white
....
space has.....
.....you can see here that the
....
whitespace characters are not replaced
.....you can see here that the
but everything else was now just like
whitespace characters are not replaced
with the backslash s and backslash d
but everything else was now just like
using back /w capital W will have the
with the backslash s and backslash d
opposite effect so that regular
using back /w capital W will have the
this regular expression will match anything but
opposite effect so that regular
a to z 0 9 and the underscore so
this regular expression will match anything but
that's the / capital W now the
a to z 0 9 and the underscore so
backslash b lowercase b boundary
that's the / capital W now the
matcher is actually an interesting one
backslash b lowercase b boundary
so we actually matches word boundaries
matcher is actually an interesting one
so it assumes that words are separated by
so we actually matches word boundaries
white space so let's uses that with our
so it assumes that words are separated by
has white space string and see what
white space so let's uses that with our
we get
has white space string and see what
so I'm going to do.....
we get
....
so I'm going to do.....
.....
....
you can see that each word has been
.....
surrounded by the replacement string so
you can see that each word has been
we got an x at the start and it
surrounded by the replacement string so
also an x at the end of each word so
we got an x at the start and it
there are situations in which this would
also an x at the end of each word so
be very useful for example we could use
there are situations in which this would
it we want to surround each word with
be very useful for example we could use
tags of some kind of you know perhaps
it we want to surround each word with
your creating some HTML code or needing
tags of some kind of you know perhaps
some sort of other tags very quick way to
your creating some HTML code or needing
actually replace that put a tag at the
some sort of other tags very quick way to
start and the end of every word
actually replace that put a tag at the
alright I'm going to finish the video
start and the end of every word
here now in the next video we didn't
alright I'm going to finish the video
quite get to quantifiers but we'll start
here now in the next video we didn't
looking at quantifiers in the next video
quite get to quantifiers but we'll start